d1: update tutorial to reflect new c3 onboarding (#9346)
cloudflare/cloudflare-docs: content/d1/get-started.md

* Creating your first database using D1, Cloudflare’s native serverless SQL database.
* Creating a schema and querying your database via the command-line.
* Connecting a [Cloudflare Worker](/workers/) to your D1 database to query it programmatically.

This guide assumes you already have a [Cloudflare account](/fundamentals/account-and-billing/account-setup/create-account/).

## 1. Prerequisites

You will need to install [`create cloudflare`], which will also install [wrangler](/workers/wrangler/install-and-update/), a command-line tool for building Cloudflare Workers and creating D1 databases.

* To install these tools, ensure you have [`npm`](https://docs.npmjs.com/getting-started) and [`Node.js`](https://nodejs.org/en/) installed.
* Use a Node version manager like [Volta](https://volta.sh/) or [nvm](https://github.com/nvm-sh/nvm) to avoid permission issues and change Node.js versions.
* Wrangler requires a Node version of `16.13.0` or later.

We'll install these tools as part of creating a new project in the next step.

> ## 2. Create a new project

Author: We need to improve terminology here.

* We aren’t creating a Worker (script) here at all (yet)
* We _are_ creating a project - which might contain a Worker, but also configuration for other Developer Platform products.

How can we better describe this step to users @deadlypants1973

{{<Aside type="note" header="New to Workers?">}}

Refer to [How Workers works](/workers/learning/how-workers-works/) to learn about the Workers serverless execution model works. Go to the [Workers Get started guide](/workers/get-started/guide/) to setup your first Worker.

{{</Aside>}}

> You will create a new Workers project as the container for both your D1 database and the Worker application that you will use to query your database.

Reviewer: Staying away from the work 'project' as the dash strategy currently uses 'application'.

> You will create a new Workers project as the container for both your D1 database and the Worker application that you will use to query your database.

Author: We should say “application” then. “Worker” isn’t correct here.

Create a new project named `d1-tutorial` by running `npm create cloudflare` and answering the questions with the answers below:

* name = `d1-tutorial` (this will be set for us)
* type = `"Hello World" script`
* typescript = `yes`
* git = `yes`

> * deploy = `no` (we'll deploy our app later)

Reviewer: When they run create with d1-tutorial, it skips the directory question so the 'first' question they'll need to answer is type of app.

> * deploy = `no` (we'll deploy our app later)

Author: Nope, it still asks the directory question, it’s just pre-populated.

cc @admah @IgorMinar who need to improve this.

```sh

> $ npm create cloudflare d1-tutorial

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
$ npm create cloudflare@latest d1-tutorial
```

```

```sh
╭ Create an application with Cloudflare Step 1 of 3
│
├ Where do you want to create your application?
│ dir d1-tutorial
│
├ What type of application do you want to create?
│ type "Hello World" script
│
├ Do you want to use TypeScript?
│ typescript yes
│
├ Copying files from "simple" template
│
├ Do you want to use git?
│ git yes
│
╰ Application created

╭ Installing dependencies Step 2 of 3
│
├ Installing dependencies
│ installed via `npm install`
│
├ Committing new files
│ git initial commit
│
╰ Dependencies Installed

╭ Deploy with Cloudflare Step 3 of 3
│
├ Do you want to deploy your application?
│ no deploying via `npm run deploy`
│
├  APPLICATION CREATED  Deploy your application with npm run deploy
│
│ Run the development server npm run start
│ Deploy your application npm run deploy
│ Read the documentation https://developers.cloudflare.com/workers
│ Stuck? Join us at https://discord.gg/cloudflaredev
│
╰ See you again soon!

> ```

Author: Let’s add more thorough text instructions. We can’t have users just guessing their way through.

This will create a new directory (`d1-tutorial`). Your new directory will include both simple `src/worker.js` Worker script, and a [`wrangler.toml`](/workers/wrangler/configuration/) configuration file which is how your `d1-tutorial` Worker will access your D1 database.

{{<Aside type="note" heading="Familiar with Workers?">}}

If you're familiar with Cloudflare Workers, or initializing projects in a Continuous Integration (CI) environment, you can initialize a new project non-interactively by setting `CI=true` as an environmental variable when running `create cloudflare`.

For example: `CI=true npm create cloudflare d1-tutorial --type=simple --git --ts --deploy=false` will create a basic "Hello World" project ready to build on.

{{</Aside>}}

> 

Reviewer: Order numbers for Create a database and Create a binding need to change.

Specifically:

> * The value (string) you set for `<BINDING_NAME>` will be used to reference this database in your Worker. In this tutorial, we'll call it `DB` to keep it simple.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* The value (string) you set for `<BINDING_NAME>` will be used to reference this database in your Worker. In this tutorial, name your binding `DB`.
```
"Simple" is relative, and non-instructive.

> 

Reviewer: Run a query needs order change.

### Configure your D1 database

> With `wrangler.toml` configured properly, set up your database. You will use the following example `schema.sql` file to configure your database. Copy the following code and save it as a `schema.sql` file in the `d1-tutorial` Worker directory you created in step 2:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
With `wrangler.toml` configured properly, you will set up your database. Use the following example `schema.sql` file to configure your database. Copy the following code and save it as a `schema.sql` file in the `d1-tutorial` Worker directory you created in step 1:
```

After you have set up your database, you will run an SQL query from within your Worker.

> First, go to your Worker project and open the `worker.ts` file. The `worker.ts` file is where you configure your Worker's interactions with D1.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
First, go to your `d1-tutorial` Worker and open the `worker.ts` file. The `worker.ts` file is where you configure your Worker's interactions with D1.
```

> Paste the following code snippet into your `worker.ts` file (replacing the existing code) and on the `env` parameter, replace `<BINDING_NAME>` with the binding name you set in step 4:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Clear the content of `worker.ts`. Paste the following code snippet into your `worker.ts` file. On the `env` parameter, replace `<BINDING_NAME>` with `DB`:
```

```typescript
---
filename: "src/worker.ts"
---
export interface Env {
  // If you set another name in wrangler.toml as the value for 'binding',
  // replace "DB" with the variable name you defined.
  DB: D1Database;
}

export default {
  async fetch(request: Request, env: Env) {
    const { pathname } = new URL(request.url);

    if (pathname === "/api/beverages") {

>       // If you didn't use "DB" as your binding name, change it here

Reviewer: ```suggestion
      // If you did not use `DB` as your binding name, change it here
```

};
```

> In the code above, we:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In the code above, you:
```

* Define a binding to our D1 database in our TypeScript code. This binding matches the `binding` value we set in `wrangler.toml` under `[[d1_databases]]`
* Query our database using `env.DB.prepare` to issue a [prepared query](/d1/platform/client-api/) with a placeholder (the `?` in the query).
* Call `.bind()` to safely and securely bind a value to that placeholder. In a real application, we would allow a user to define the `CompanyName` they want to list results for. Using `.bind()` prevents users from executing arbitary SQL (known as "SQL injection") against our application and deleting or otherwise modifying your database.
* Execute the query by calling `.all()` to return all rows (or none, if the query returns none)
* Return our query results, if any, in JSON format with `Response.json(results)`

After configuring your Worker, you can test your project locally before you deploy globally.

> ## 6. Develop locally with Wrangler

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## 5. Develop locally with Wrangler
```

While in your project directory, test your database locally by running:

```sh
$ wrangler dev
```

When you run `wrangler dev`, Wrangler will give you a URL (most likely `localhost:8787`) to review your Worker. After you visit the URL Wrangler provides, you will see this message: `Call /api/beverages to see everyone who works at Bs Beverages`.

To test that your database is running successfully, add `/api/beverages` to the provided Wrangler URL: for example, `localhost:8787/api/beverages`. After doing this, you should see your data being displayed in the browser.

## 7. Deploy your database

> Before deploying your D1 database and Worker globally, you'll need to log in with your [Cloudflare account](/fundamentals/account-and-billing/account-setup/create-account/). To log in, run the following command:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Before deploying your D1 database and Worker globally, log in with your Cloudflare account by running:
```

Finally, deploy your Worker to make your project accessible on the Internet. To deploy your Worker, run:

```sh

> $ wrangler deploy
> 
> # Outputs:
> Total Upload: 0.19 KiB / gzip: 0.16 KiB
> Uploaded d1-tutorial (3.18 sec)
> Published d1-tutorial (6.29 sec)
>   https://d1-tutorial.YOURNAMEHERE.workers.dev
> Current Deployment ID: 1b680ecc-6f38-4be7-b982-063d425ef204

Reviewer: ```suggestion
$ npx wrangler deploy
```
Same docs maintenance work commentary here.

Author: The URL we output is something we should keep. Users need to know where to find it!

Reviewer: I believe the text below (line 289) has this information. 

If we wanted to include a sentence that says something about how the deployment will create a URL that follows the pattern: `<YOUR_WORKER>.<YOUR_SUBDOMAIN>.workers.dev`, I think that would make it clearer. We have YOURNAMEHERE as a stand-in for what is the user's subdomain.

```

> You can now visit the URL for your newly created project to query your live database!

Reviewer: ```suggestion
You can now visit the URL for your newly created project to query your live database.
```

For example, if the URL of your new Worker is `d1-tutorial.yourname.workers.dev`, accessing `https://d1-tutorial.yourname.workers.dev/api/beverages` will send a request to your Worker that queries your live database directly.

> By finishing this tutorial, you have created a D1 database, a Worker to access that database and deployed your project globally!

Reviewer: ```suggestion
By finishing this tutorial, you have created a D1 database, a Worker to access that database and deployed your project globally.
```
